in this episode of build your tribe
Brock and I are going to share with you
some of our nightmare experiences public
speaking and how you can recover from
them as well as top tips to get your
first paid speaking gigs
welcome to the show Brock how are you
doing I'm doing great a lot a lot better
now than my nightmare speaking event is
over I think it's everyone's biggest
fear is public speaking I think I've
even heard that it is for many people a
greater fear than dying itself yeah I
think most studies say it's either like
the number one or number two biggest
fear worldwide is speaking in front of
large crowds what's your greatest fear
by the way I don't know I feel like my
biggest tangible fear that's like
present would be like an avalanche
Backcountry snowboarding like I don't
feel like I'm scared of sharks when I'm
surfing now I'm not scared of spiders oh
snakes snakes I hate snakes I hate
snakes so much shouldn't have told me
that snakes that's my biggest well for
many people you know this fear of public
speaking is that you're gonna mess up or
something horrible is going to happen on
stage and you're just going to be so
embarrassed you're gonna die of
embarrassment or the words aren't going
to come out of your mouth or you're
going to start sweating or you're going
to forget what you need to say but these
things have happened and they may happen
and we're here to tell you you are going
to live you just came back from like a
major speaking event this story is
classic I need you to share the story
yeah this is why I called it my
nightmare speaking event it had nothing
to do with the actual people putting on
the event they're wonderful but I was
literally recording a build your tribe
podcast in my hotel room at 10 50 in the
morning 10 50. because I didn't think
that I was supposed to be backstage
until 1 30 and I wasn't supposed to go
on stage until 2 p.m so I even had a
plan like I was going to finish the
podcast I was going to get a little
workout in shower freshen up and then
head over to the event how big of an
event is this where were you and had you
ever spoke to this group before yeah I
had spoken to this company before but
never this exact group it was a major
network marketing company and this was
their National event for Canada and the
CEO of the company who I had a couple
like conversations with we were friendly
now he was at the event so like this was
a big deal and I think there was about
600 people in the audience so it was a
big deal yeah okay okay
so you're prepared you're so prepared
that you're actually doing you're like
me before I'm speaking even if I'm
prepared I can't be doing something else
I'm like over preparing so it's
interesting to hear that you were
actually recording a podcast and you
knew you had a couple hours before you'd
be on stage yeah and I'd send them my
slides a few weeks in advance which is
something I had to do because they had
to translate them like to French because
it was in Canada so like I didn't have
you know I didn't have the option to
like change my slides and and this was a
presentation I'd given before so I
didn't need to review them so I was just
getting ready and again 10 50 a.m I'm
recording a podcast and you can watch it
on video because I was literally like
recording you know the the camera was
rolling when I got this text and I see
this little notification pop up on my
phone or on my laptop that says Brock
you need to be backstage now and like
you can see even though I'm finishing
the sentence of what I was saying in the
podcast my eyes are looking to the left
and they're like wide because I'm like
oh s-h-i-t like what is about to happen
what's going wrong right now can when we
put that video in here yeah okay yeah
we'll put that in eventually but if your
only Instagram strategy is sharing
content that is valuable then
unfortunately it's going to be tough for
you to grow
what
oh no
so you're like oh [__] and then what do
you what do you do okay so I immediately
like I stopped recording and I text her
back and I said okay I'll head over now
but my schedule says I don't go on until
2 35 and she replied you are on now
please run no this would not work for me
I understand like a couple of hours
before no I know my hair is not put
together the lashes are not on I I
couldn't run yeah no I was lucky that I
was recording a podcast and I wasn't in
the middle of a workout or like I was 30
minutes before that which was out having
breakfast just wearing like normal
clothes so I was wearing I was wearing
you know a nice outfit ready to be on
camera but I was wearing the same outfit
that I had worn on stage the night
before because I also spoke the night
before this event yeah so same outfit
same event and so I was like I can't
literally wear the exact same thing on
stage 12 hours later like I just I can't
so I had to change really quickly
luckily like you said I didn't have to
do my hair and makeup but I literally
had to like change my pants change my
shirt and and change my shoes because I
had to make a split second decision do I
want to wear my running shoes because I
know I'm about to have to run to the
event or do I want to wear my Converse
which is what I was planning on wearing
on stage and like run over there in the
worst running shoes ever made
and the next thing is before you go on
stage you really want to like be calm
and like think through your like you
want to be in a certain state of mind
and you are now in a fight or flight
fighting for your life and your heart is
racing all these things so the audience
where they did they have another speaker
like to fill in for you or something no
so I I guess what they did because to
finish out the text conversation I said
okay I'm heading over now I'll be there
in seven minutes and she said please
hurry and so I'm like running over there
and as I run into the building full
Sprint it was two blocks away from my
hotel to the convention center as I run
into the building a bunch of the
attendees from the audience are like
walking out of the building and I can
see like the doors to the actual like
the convention hall are open because
they're like letting them all go and I
Sprint backstage and as I'm running back
some of the attendees are like oh there
he is there you are because I guess what
they said was I don't know exactly how
they phrase it but like Brock isn't here
or we're having some minor delays so
everyone take I think they said like a
15 minute break and we'll be right back
we'll figure out where Brock is and
we'll be right back yeah so you had to
be like a little bit bumming like
thinking like this I don't know how the
mess up happened maybe you can tell that
to us but
um you had been also thinking like this
is going to reflect really poorly on me
so what's your State of Mind before you
go on stage usually before I go on stage
I'm actually like very calm and very the
opposite of fight or flight oftentimes
backstage all like yawn a bunch or I'll
fall asleep like I get really mellow
like I feel like it's my body's over
compensating for like where it should be
but I even tracked this on my aura ring
to make sure that I wasn't you know just
like lying to myself my heart rate stays
really really low until I get up on
stage and then it spikes up for like a
minute when I run up there from
adrenaline and then it levels back out
so like it's it's something that and we
can talk about this later but I've been
public speaking for years now so I feel
like it's become very second nature and
I feel very comfortable
um but no I was totally fight or flight
I was freaking out and I got backstage
and they're like oh there you are okay
you're ready and I literally ran right
up to the person who was gonna mic me up
she put on my headset she put on my
battery pack
um and then the speaker went back up on
stage and she was like all right Brock's
here everyone come back into the room
and she introduced me and I ran up on
stage and I ended up only being maybe
four or five minutes behind schedule
when it was supposed to start but for
the first like 10 minutes of my
presentation uh I could see everyone
like coming back into the room and like
coming back from what they expected to
be like a 15 minute break and so that
was definitely like an awkward
transition okay how did how did it turn
out okay so how did it turn out I as I
was running back I was like okay how am
I going to position this right because
it looks really bad on my behalf like it
reflects really poorly on me that I'm
showing up late
um and I needed a way to connect with
the audience and also own up for my
mistakes because I was like if I just
walk in there and I run up on stage and
I start blaming like anyone but myself
or like you know pointing fingers at the
event staff or anyone it's gonna look
really bad so instead I have to like
take ownership for it I have to in some
way like you know kind of kind of make
it a joke make light of it but also say
like this is me this is my mistake this
is like you know kind of allow them to
laugh with me and at me and kind of just
speak bigger picture when I'm speaking
on stage this is a tip I got from you
really early on is it's really important
to make sure that your audience feels
you're relatable because you're someone
who they're literally looking up to
you're literally on a stage on a
pedestal yeah and you don't want that
disconnect from your audience you don't
want them don't want them you know look
at you in this way you want to feel like
you're on the same level because you
really are and so you oftentimes start
your speeches with some sort of like you
know making fun of yourself or dancing
around or being goofy self-defamation
just to you know like lighten the mood
and be like hey it's not I'm not so
perfect I'm not like this long fancy bio
that was just read off and so I got up
on stage and I was I was out of breath
but also I kind of played into the fact
that I had just sprinted here and so I
was like you know hunched over and heavy
breathing
um and I said have you all ever had one
of those nightmares where you're like
running late for class but you graduated
you know high school 20 years ago or you
have a sports game but you like forgot
your cleats at home or like you're out
in public and you you're not wearing
pants well that kind of just happened to
me and so I like told them that and they
were all dying laughing oh that's so
good and it was relatable and it was
honest um because it literally is like
the nightmare scenario for any public
speaker that you have like the night
before you go on stage is what if I mess
up the time what if I'm running late
like what if something goes wrong and it
literally did we're gonna get to a
couple of tips to help those of you are
not yet
um haven't started your paid speaking
gig but because it's a great way to
build your brand and awareness for your
expertise but I'm going to share with
you my worst public speaking nightmare
was on stage in front of about seven
eight hundred people and the front row
of this audience was which was it was a
predominantly female crowd mostly but
there's probably 20 guys but the front
rows all the women while I was speaking
were like
like make making these gestures like
toward my shirt and you know you try not
to zero in on just like one person in
the audience you can't if you get really
distracted by what people are doing in
you know the audience you can lose track
of what it is you're teaching so I'm
glancing down and trying not to lose my
train of thought but after I realize oh
no like the whole front row is like
really trying to get my attention I
realized that I had a blouse that had a
little tiny buttons all the way down the
front and when I was doing my dancing
it had popped open and I was
um raw fully exposed
wow and so like you know it's like you
you have to just like go well look at
you know I'm just trying to really get
everybody's attention Apparently one
moment please and like literally turned
around and I made a Janet Jackson
reference to uh
um
yeah and I just kind of like buttoned it
back up and and then literally I was
like by the way does anyone have a
safety pin just in case and and so I
just kept going and you know those are
the things that do actually I always say
when when something like that happens
when I'm speaking on stage it's pure
gold because you just if you roll with
it people are gonna love you for it you
become much more real you know then they
start rooting for you so I I love it
when those things happen I've fallen on
stage I mean there's so many things that
have happened to me on stage where I
think thank God this happened because
now it's it's a way for me to work it in
and people can actually see my
personality as opposed to like a
memorized presentation
so you will recover from it but these
things do happen I've lost all of my
slides all of my presentation notes I've
gotten up on stage and been told that I
have an hour for my presentation and
then just before going on stage
someone tells me on the shield and says
oh we have to adjust the schedule so if
you can wrap this up in about 16 to 17
minutes and you just have to do it you
know you just I like okay here we go
yeah I've had all those things happen
myself
um you know having your slides taken
down having things crash having things
not work having music not play uh one of
my very first uh presentations that I
did my mic headset completely came off
like in the middle so I had to literally
stop exit the stage and have someone
like re-mike me up because no one could
hear me so all these things will happen
um but not only can we share some tips
to avoid these things but I think more
importantly we can share some tips with
our listeners as to like how do you even
get into this space of paid public
speaking and uh you know speaking in
front of large audiences because it can
be really powerful not just in like a
monetary sense of you're getting paid to
do this but I love the idea of borrowing
other people's platforms or sharing
other people's stages because then you
don't have to be the person to you know
have a live audience of a thousand
people or have a mastermind with 30
high-level entrepreneurs instead you can
be invited to speak to that group and
essentially you're achieving the same
result you're still speaking to that
group of people the first tip that I
would give for people is to Niche down
and then Niche down even further because
that's how you're going to set yourself
apart and earn The credibility to speak
in front of these audiences if you call
yourself a fitness expert it's going to
be hard to land a paid Fitness speaking
gig but if you really Niche down and get
super specific with the demographics who
you help and what you can strategically
do for this group of people that's
what's going to set you apart from
everyone else who does what you do step
number two is you've got to get your
name out there and you know you can
apply to speak at events but I find that
the best way to do this is to offer your
services for free and one of the easiest
ways right now in 2023 moving into 2024
is offering to present on Zoom people
once they see you and you've got this
opportunity to speak in front of a large
group it's not going to cost you
anything to go live on zoom and and even
if it's a smaller opportunity like 50
people or 100 people those are
additional people who now know you for
the specific Niche that you were
speaking on and to add on to what
Brockton said about niching down like
the reason why Brock you get so many
speaking opportunities is because now
your name is getting passed around by
event planners we need someone to teach
Instagram and they're thinking of you
first exactly exactly and to speak on
your second point that was the exact
funnel that I followed I started with
very small what you might not even
consider public speaking of just
one-on-one coaching and then from there
those one-on-one clients started to
bring me in to speak to oftentimes
they're smaller network marketing teams
of maybe 12 to 50 people or their
smaller podcasts that might only get a
few listeners every month but small
events and then from there it became
bigger teams or teams that were paying
me or groups or small companies that
maybe had 50 to 100 people but would pay
me for again just a zoom and then from
there it started growing into actual
in-person events again again starting
small with maybe 50 to 100 people and
now speaking at events with 12 000
people but it continues to build and I
think that there should be no shame in
starting out with free you know free
public speaking because you're getting
your name out there you're you're
planting the seeds now that you'll reap
and sow much later speaking of which you
and I both still will do events for free
because it's the rewards aren't always
what they're going to pay you for you
know the time on stage or the travel Etc
in fact one of the most lucrative events
that I ever spoke at I did so for free
and reached 30
000 people live just by saying yes to
that event my social media my Instagram
grew 7 000 followers I mean for me that
was incredibly valuable to do that and
the return opportunities people
additional people who reached out for me
the way that it you know promoted our
brand and awareness so like don't be I
hear people all the time saying like
um never do free I'm like evaluate the
opportunity first our next tip is to
build your credibility by creating
long-form content if people are only
seeing you posting tick tocks and reels
that are lip syncs that are seven
seconds long even if you have a huge
following it's hard to show your
personality it's hard to build trust in
those moments it's hard to see how you
would really translate that into
speaking on stage but if you have a 30
minute long podcast or a 45 minute long
YouTube video or even you know
reoccurring Facebook or Instagram lives
where people are able to see you speak
for extended periods of time and teach
and add storytelling then they're able
to much more easily imagine what it
would be like to see you on stage and
you can point to those things as
examples of hey I could deliver this
message for you on stage and here's an
example of myself already doing it
absolutely you know as someone who is a
paid speaker and someone who hires paid
speakers that's the first thing I'm
looking for even when people pitch
themselves to be on our podcast cast I'm
always like like how well are they able
to teach this content do they know how
to be brief in fact side note even when
we're doing like we're looking at
someone to be a guest on the podcast I
look at do they know how to be a good
guest do they know how to pause and
allow the host to interject their
questions and so when you're looking at
to you know create your own speaker
resume if you will don't just assume
that you need to be on stage and show
that you just need to show them how you
show up are you able to be
extemporaneous are you captivating are
you interesting are you great story are
you rehearsed and this and that's my
next tip is you've got to make sure that
you are well rehearsed because you just
never know whether people are going to
need like I said a 15 minute
presentation a one hour presentation
um recently I had to do a full two days
where I was in charge of speaking for
four hours to this to well two different
groups but four hours a block of time
that requires requires some experience
in how do you hold people's attention
for that long period of time so don't be
afraid to get a multitude of experience
and and to have all of those links ready
when you're going to email your show
host and that's our next tip and that is
you know once you've really you've got
those things lined up like you've done
some podcasts some YouTubes uh maybe
you've done some free zooms or you've
offered your services for free you've
racked up a little bit of experience now
it's time to reach out to the perfect
fit and there's so many of them out
there so once you know you can't do that
though until you know your Niche so once
you've got your Niche now you're going
to look for people who are specifically
looking for someone with your expertise
and again I love the idea of offering
your services for free the first time
why not yeah it's just a great way to
build that that base and to get your
name out there because oftentimes you're
going to land more events and future
gigs from that first gig I can't think
of a speaking event that I've had that
can't be traced to a speaking event
before it like literally as I'm going
through everyone that I've done recently
there is someone at that event who got
me there because they saw me speak at
another event or because they were and
in attendance at a different event and
their friend told them about me it's
oftentimes word of mouth and
recommendations for these things
um and also I would say part of kind of
building this practice and this ability
to speak in 15 minutes or a four hour
window is get yourself on other people's
podcasts by following the strategies
that we've already been talking about of
knowing your Niche and reaching out to
these people but when you're on someone
else's podcast and they're interviewing
you especially when you don't know the
questions beforehand it's such an
awesome opportunity because sometimes
they're going to ask you a super
specific uh tactical question that you
need to be able to deliver an answer to
in that moment sometimes they're going
to ask you to tell you know your life
story from start to finish right there
and so it's just great practice of being
able to think on your feet adjust and be
as brief or as as long-winded as you
might need to be you know this was not a
point that I wanted to come up with so
this is the bonus point is whenever you
can offer your services to do a panel
you know those are sometimes things that
speakers are looking at I don't want to
do a panel I don't want to be a part of
like five people but I think it's a
wonderful way to stand out my last tip
and Brock I'm sure that you this is
something you've probably done yourself
is to become a detective once you know
where you can best serve people like
figure out okay so what organizations
represent the kind of people who I know
I can help them right and then do your
research like become a detective Google
it like find out who where are these
conferences where are the people who are
looking for paid speakers or looking for
speakers and experts uh with your
specific knowledge and look for the when
is their annual event do they have
Regional events uh do they have local
events local events are a wonderful way
so speaking of which network marketing
is a wonderful way to get a lot of
experience public speaking because there
are so many different distributors
hundreds of different network marketing
organizations and they're always looking
for great training they're always
looking for paid speakers sometimes free
speakers but they do that on a local
level so reach out to the top
distributors in your area how do you
find them you got to be a detective like
you got to get really good at using
Google track down who those people are
find their social media profiles
interact with them follow them get to
know them become their fans offer your
services to them find out what it is
they need specifically for their team
because they're always looking for
people in their in the personal
development and Business Development
Area oh my gosh look who's in the
background Schatzi you know she'll
she'll sit back down in a second oh
he's readjusting hi sweetie and then our
final tip that we would recommend is
that you don't necessarily have to
always find someone else or some other
speaking gig you can create your own and
like we've mentioned it doesn't have to
be a massive event with thousands and
thousands of people you could organize
local meetups at the local public
library you could organize Zoom
trainings for small groups of people and
you don't even have to necessarily
charge for these events but these are
again great opportunities to practice
great opportunities to get your name out
there and there are opportunities that
you control and that you can really
dictate you know the date the time the
location the pacing and all of that and
so it allows you to kind of do this on
your own terms and then use these as
examples uh to pitch yourself to Future
speaking events that you might not be
running it's an awesome idea you know
and remember you you this is something
there's other people who are in your
same kind of area of expertise like
let's say for example you are
um your expertise is that you help new
moms recover from postpartum and you
network with other people who are maybe
someone's a doula or maybe somebody is a
lactation expert and you know people who
are in that General Community serving
new moms
um invite people who are kind of on the
same level right like they're not yet a
national paid speaker uh but you you
know their expertise you know their
qualifications and say like hey I've got
this idea I'm going to do this free
Summit I'll organize the zoom we can all
invite people from our social media to
show up to it and in return what we'll
all get is a real where we're able to
show potential event planners our
abilities as paid speakers and then we
could set you know we can pitch this as
a group like there's so many ways to get
experience and other people need it too
so you're not going to want to reach out
to like a garyvee and say like hey Gary
you know I'm trying to put together my
own event but like reach out to people
who you know are great speakers and are
also looking to build their resume Brock
thank you so much for sharing your
hysterically nightmarish story like my
my worst nightmare I still at least once
a week dream that I have to go teach a
fitness class everybody's there waiting
they're angry with me I've forgotten the
time I'm showing up I don't have shoes I
have to borrow someone else's shoes I
can't get the the music to play like so
what you experience is like oh I have
PTSD for you yeah it was it was
traumatic but on the bright side it
wasn't terrible I was able to make it on
stage and still present and totally uh I
was able to show myself like that like
literally the worst nightmare happened
and I was okay and everything worked out
and uh it wasn't the end of the world I
think the absolute worst case scenarios
if I would have just like totally missed
it um so that nightmare will probably
still persist oh uh but yeah it was
definitely a crazy story and it's one
that I'm thankful that I can already
look back on and laugh I guess the moral
of the story is it's always much scarier
in your reoccurring nightmare than it
really is in real life I mean it wasn't
that big of a deal and it probably
turned out uh to your advantage because
people thought it was pretty freaking
funny yeah they did and maybe be that's
a great way to end the episode because
as we said at the beginning a lot of
people are scared of public speaking and
so our advice for you is that hey it's
not going to be that scary once you get
up on stage Once you turn on the zoom
the first 90 seconds you know your voice
might be a little cracky and you'll be
nervous but that's just normal that just
shows you that you're human and that
stuff will go away and get easier with
practice but um take it from two people
who have done thousands of hours of
public speaking now uh it's not so bad
yes hey if you are listening on your
favorite podcasting app don't forget to
double check and make sure that you're
subscribed to the show we always pin a
comment right up at the top so that's a
great way for you to interact and share
with us your thoughts on this episode
what you'd like to see more of be sure
to subscribe and turn on the
notifications turn on the little bell so
you know that when we're dropping a new
episode and we're doing this twice a
week now so thanks so much to everyone
who's already subscribed to the YouTube
channel and you know wherever you listen
we we're grateful for the time that you
spend with us it's our goal to be brief
to be bright to make it fun and then be
done and as always happy networking
[Music]